1. What is git?
Git is a distributed version-control system for tracking changes in source code during software development.
Git is an Open-source version control system that was started by Linus Trovalds

2. Write down 5 SCM names?
HitHub, Bigbucket, Hitlab, SVN, CVS, TVS

3. What is the abbreviation of VCS?
Version Control System

4. What is the abbreviation of SCM?
Software configuration management (SCM)
Source Code Management

5. What is Branch?
Branch is nothing but another line of development
The default branch name in Git is master.

6. What is tag?
Tag we will use in Production relese, Once we'll create we won't change

7.What is the difference between Branch and Tag?
Branch: Branch is nothing but another line of development.The default branch name in Git is master.
Tag: Tag we will use in Production relese, Once we'll create we won't change

8. When we will create the branch and when we will the create tag?
branches are created at the time of development.
Tags are used for creating stable releases. To create a tag for using with the Git Drupal Repository

9. What is “git add” command will do?
It will send the code from Working Area to Staging Area

10. What is the command to revert the code from staging area to working area?
git reset vasanth.txt(File Name)

11.What is the git revert command?
It will revert the changes committed in that particular commit id from local repo

12.What is the difference between fetch and pull in Git?
git fetch: It will get the update from git remote repo and will update your local repo. But it will not merge with Local Working copy
git pull: It will get the update from git remote repo and will update your local repo as well it will merge with local working copy also

13. How to see how many branches are currently available in git repo?
git branch -v

14. What is the command to create the branch?
git branch Development(Branch Name)

15. How to switch from branch to another branch?
git checkout Development(Branchname)

16. How to create branch and how to switch to that branch in one command?
$ git checkout -b team<branch_name>

17. What is the command to delete the branch in local repo?
git branch -d team(Branch Name)

18. What is the command to delete branch in remote repo?
git push Health(AN) : team(BN) or git push Health -delete team

19. What is the branching strategy you are following?
Branching allows a team of developers to collaborate inside of one central code base(master). 
Team members publish, share, review and iterate on code changes through Git branches shared with others. 
Adopt a branching strategy for your team.

20. What is git stash command?
git stash temporarily stashes changes you are made to ur working copy so u can work on something else,
and then come back and re-apply them later on

21.What is git cherry-pick ?
Cherry picking in git means to choose a commit from one branch and apply it onto another

22. What does git rebase?
the rebase command integrates changes from one branch into another. 
It is an alternative to the better known "merge" command.

23.What is PAT?
personal access tokens (PAT)

24. What is SSH key and how to generate ssh-key?
An SSH key is an alternate way to identify yourself that doesn't require you to enter you username and password every time
Using ssh-keygen(Default)
Using ssh-keygen -t dsa(Custom)

25. What is the default path for ssh keys?
/home(~)/.ssh

26. How many file will generate if you create ssh keys and what are the file names?
two files will create
id_rsa
id_rsa.pub

27. What is the difference between git & GitHub?
Git is a revision control system, a tool to manage your source code history. 
GitHub is a hosting service for Git repositories. So they are not the same thing: Git is the tool, 
GitHub is the service for projects that use Git.

28. What are the git best practices while committing the code need to follow?
Commit Related Changes
Commit Often
Don't Commit Half-Done Work
Test Your Code Before You Commit
Write Good Commit Messages
Use Branches & Tags

29. How to change git commit message after push (given that no one pulled from remote)?
git commit -amend -m "Message"

30. How to rename the branch name?
git branch -m team(oldname) team1(newname)

31. What is the command to get the code from remote git repo?
git clone URL
git fetch Hello
git pull Hello

32. How to check the particular branch from github? 
git clone https://github.com/pyqtgraph/pyqtgraph -b https://github.com/3rdcycle/pyqtgraph/tree/date-axis-item/pyqtgraph/graphicsItems

33. What is the command to see all git messages in local repo?
git log --grep=<pattern>

34. How to create the repository in git?
git init

35. How to check if a branch is already merged with any branch or not?
git branch --merged master(another branchname)

36. What is SubGit?
SubGit is a tool for a smooth, 
stress-free SVN to Git migration. 
Create a writable Git mirror of a local or 
remote Subversion repository and use both Subversion and Git as long as you like.

37. What language is used in Git?
Git commands in all kinds of languages -- naturally shell and Perl, but I've also seen Python